once you hit as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explained in
this episode we're going to be looking
at the 2016 thriller from Tom Ford
nocturnal animals based on the 1993
novel Tony and Susan the film focuses on
Susan morrow an art gallery owner played
by Amy Adams who after almost 20 years
hears from her ex-husband Edward
Sheffield played by Jake Gyllenhaal when
he sends her the manuscript to a novel
he is written Susan is in an unhappy
marriage with Hudson who she later
learns is cheating on her and throughout
the film she reads the book which Edward
has titled nocturnal animals which was
what he used to call Susan when they
were together this is where the movie
within the movie or the novel within the
movie starts we see the book nocturnal
animals play out inside Susan's
imagination where she envisions the main
character of Tony as her ex-husband and
writer of the novel Edward the character
Tony has to endure the kidnapping of his
wife and daughter by three men on a
highway in the middle of the night
powerless to stop the abduction of his
family
the deeper Susan gets into the brutal
and horrific story she finds herself
becoming heavily affected by the book
she casts her mind back to when she met
Edward for the first time in years as
they had known each other in their youth
they sparked up a romance which Susan's
mother objected to insisting that Edward
is not driven or ambitious and that he
wouldn't be suitable as her husband
Susan goes against her mother's wishes
and marries Edward anyway but eventually
their marriage dissolves when Susan
grows frustrated with Edwards
aspirations of being a writer as she
isn't a creative person and can't quite
relate to his passion it creates a rift
between the two that gets blown apart
when Susan cheats on Edward with Hutton
who represents the successful alpha male
type the Edward could never be Susan
likes that Edward is sensitive and
romantic but she's decided that's not
what she is interested in anymore
Edward wants to make it work but Susan
commits leaving him
even having an abortion to ensure that
there's no way for Edward to remain a
part of her life now in the present
Susan seems to be living a rich but
empty life the sparse minimalist
surrounding she spends her time and seem
to reflect how devoid of warmth and
empathy her life really is as she
continues to read Edwards book the grim
story unfolds into even darker territory
as Tony discovers that his wife and
daughter have both been raped and
murdered by the men
a police detective played by Michael
Shannon Bobby who is terminally ill
wants to help Tony get revenge as he
recognizes the injustice of the
situation as the men can't be prosecuted
one of the three has already died in a
robbery
leaving Bobby to go rogue with Tony to
hunt down the last two remaining men
Bobby shoots the man called Liu and Tony
is left to face Rae who admits to raping
and murdering his family
Tony shoots Rae and is taken down in the
process with Rae dead
Tony awakes severely injured and meets
his final fate
accidentally falling onto his gun which
fires off
Susan is reeling from finishing the
novel and arranges to meet with Edward
she prepares herself for dinner dresses
up nicely and goes to reunite with the
man she hasn't seen in so many years who
she wronged so heavily and who might now
provide her with the substance that's
been missing from her life she waits for
him at the restaurants and she waits
and she waits
you
the film is essentially a revenge story
in two parts the first part is the book
nocturnal animals that acts is almost a
Trojan horse for Edwards revenge against
Susan she doesn't realize it but he's
telling her how he felt when she
betrayed him when she cheated on him and
aborted their child it's an extreme
metaphor and perhaps that masks how
obvious it is but the book following
Tony having his wife and daughter ripped
away from him is how Edward felt about
losing Susan and also his unborn child
Susan took everything away from Edward
when she left him and emblematic of this
was her belief that he wasn't a good
enough writer that he had to stop
writing about himself to be successful
Susan even cuts her finger on the
manuscript before she's even fully
opened it a foreshadowing of how deep
Edwards words are going to cut the
second part is how Edward has
manipulated Susan into having feelings
for him again to show her the kind of
talent he has the talent she dismissed
all those years ago to profoundly move
her with his art she talks about how she
isn't an artist that she isn't creative
but that she simply sells art in reading
nocturnal animal she becomes absorbed by
the story even seeing a daydreaming
flash of one of the murderers ray when
she's at work by the end of the book she
remembers everything about Edward that
she initially fell in love with which
she had already been reminiscing about
she's accepted that Hudson is now
cheating on her and feels the same scorn
the Edward must have when she did the
same thing to him by going to me Edward
Susan maybe felt that he could save her
meaningless life she has become a person
of style without substance living in a
loveless marriage and partnership for
show but Edward stands her up and it's
likely that this was his plan all along
to hook Susan to make her care about him
again to force her to feel all of his
pain in all of its gory detail and then
leave her without a resolution
in the book Tony is very much like
Edward and Edward would know that Susan
would imagine him in the lead part as
he's the writer Susan had looked at
Edward in the past as if he was weak and
Tony is portrayed as a very weak
individual who was helpless when his
family is ripped away from him much how
Edward felt when Susan abandoned him and
aborted their child helpless maybe
Edward wanted to make Susan understand
that it felt like he died alone in a
desert when she left him or maybe he
wanted her to feel like he wishes he
could shoot her with Ray as the analog
for how she treated him calling him weak
and taking away his family or maybe he
simply wanted to entice her enough to
want to meet him again with a
brilliantly written and haunting piece
of art just to leave her hanging to gain
his last revenge
we even see the word revenge on the wall
where Susan works which is a little bit
on the nose for my liking but hey if
there was ever any doubt what this movie
was about there it is but perhaps that
wasn't the complete intention of Edward
perhaps he realizes what Susan has
become so far removed from the woman he
fell in love with the book was a message
and it was up to Susan to react to this
when he agrees to meet Susan after she
finished reading the book he tells her
to name the time and place she picks a
fancy upmarket restaurant one that fits
her lifestyle and image maybe this tells
Edward that the message he was sending
her through the book hadn't changed her
in the slightest if Susan had chosen
somewhere more quaint like the
restaurant where they had had dinner and
fallen for each other before he may have
gone to meet her but her materialistic
ways have a firm grip and she chose a
place that fits that lifestyle there's
many ways you can look into the ending
of nocturnal animals and some people
prefer to look at it as a hopeful ending
susan has now learned something by him
standing her up and maybe that was his
plan all along maybe it was a gesture
for her to unlock a part of her life
that she had neglected for so long and
it'll help her to move on as he is also
planning to move on in writing the book
and exercising those demons personally I
still think it was a straight revenge
story and as horrible as Susan was to Ed
does that still justify what he did
susan was arguably already unhappy and
rotting in an empty existence but then
again maybe that's why he waited all
those years just to make sure his
particular dish of revenge
was served ice-cold
[Music]
you